### Can sperm be considered living thing
https://biology.stackexchange.com/questions/20437/are-sperms-considered-living

>> Reproduction is not only cell division obviously. Following this same definition one would not consider a human to be a living things but only to be a collection of living (and non-living) things. It is important to understand that a spermatozoid is just one phase of a life-cycle. This phase yield to the next phase. That's it. It seems weird to say that a kid is not alive just because he cannot reproduce. It seems weird to say that a grandmother is not alive because it cannot reproduce. You can say however that a kid is a living thing that cannot reproduce and at another moment of its life cycle it will be able to reproduce (assuming it will survive to this age). One should not think of spermatozoids as something totally detached from the human phase as we know it. These things just form a cycle and it seems to me miseleading to say that a part of this cycle is not alive. Saying such thing would yield someone to think that two living things create non-living things that by fusion will become alive. That seems weird. But again, it is nothing but a matter of definition. 

>> A cell can be considered a "living" thing since It has RNA/DNA, it imbibes nutrition, it grows and is destroyed, we cannot say however that it is alive. It has a specific set of instructions coded into the RNA which it follows till its death (which is also protein,and hence RNA, mediated). Alive is a term reserved for organisms and not single haploid somatic cells. On the other hand...sperms have spiral mitochondria hence they contain RNA. In short..yes..they can be considered living

Sperm is the male reproductive cell.The human sperm cell is haploid, so that its 23 chromosomes can join the 23 chromosomes of the female egg to form a diploid cell. In humans, each cell normally contains 23 pairs of chromosomes, for a total of 46. Twenty-two of these pairs, called autosomes, look the same in both males and females. The 23rd pair, the sex chromosomes, differ between males and females
