### Cortisol is secreted from any perceived stress. 
Our brains do not know the difference between real or perceived stress. There was a study I think of long ago, they have people come and run around the track. And after they ran around the track, they got them in a functional MRI scanner to look at what was going on in their brain, what patterns of neurochemicals were released, and whatnot. One month later, they had the participants come back, and this time, they didn't run around the track, they just told the participants, “Get in the MRI scanner and think about running around the track.” Well, guess what, same exact areas of their brain were stimulated. What this means is that our brains do not know the difference between perceived reality or what we can imagine and what is actually true.

We've heard of examples of this especially in sports. I always heard the story of Michael Jordan, how he always imagined he would make the basket before he took the shot. Well, that's very real, right, because he's telling his brain, “Here's what's going to happen,” before it happens. And if you train yourself, and a lot of people are waking up to this about how to train your brain to focus in a very intentional way, if you can imagine what you want to happen in your life, it will show up and happen to you. This is why I tell my patients and clients, in life, you always get what you focus on, always. You cannot separate from that.

### Focus on what your like, not on what you fear
So, always focus on what you want. And I think people struggle with that a little bit because we're so negatively wired. We have a lot of fear-based, especially in Madison, a lot of it is fear-based, if you don't do this, then this bad stuff will happen, if you do this, if you eat a certain way, you'll gain weight, if you eat certain foods, you'll get fat. A lot of it is fear-based, and that fear is very real because it puts that thought, that emotion in people's brains, and then that's what they focus on. So, what I strive to do with my patients is really to undo that, to kind of rewire that programming because it is true and you can look back on your life. You always get what you focus on.

So, what I tell people, the classic way of describing this, because a lot of people are interested in losing weight, again his weight gets screwed up, instead of focusing on, “Oh, I want to lose weight, I'm excited to lose weight, I can't wait to lose weight,” what's much better and more effective is, “I can't wait to wear those clothes. I can't wait to wear that bathing suit.” Change happens much faster when we run towards something than away from something. And that's very true when we get into perception versus reality. And so another takeaway is always focus on what you want and make it positive, right, because your brain doesn't know the difference.  

