  
> ... Ph.D teaches you one crucial skill - how to take a vaguely defined research problem that nobody has done before, where you're not even sure that a solution exists, and make tangible, rigorous progress on it. Your actual doctoral topic as a Ph.D student will probably be useless. Most of your coursework is the same as what any master's degree gives you. But the experience that sets you apart from B.S. and M.S. graduates is that of slogging through a dissertation, trying to make an original contribution to knowledge. There are other ways to develop this skillset. Founding a company does it as well, as does developing a new product from scratch. High-level creative work (eg. writing a novel, getting traction for your band, producing a theatrical performance or radio show) does as well. Companies love to hire candidates from these backgrounds as well, but most don't want to work for someone else. 

> A bachelors degree in X is meant to take you from nearly zero to "thinking like an X", it is the high points of sometimes centuries of thought in an area, summarized and you are handheld through the process. A masters degree will bridge the gap between the "nice" standard courses and the "messy" current research front. It's meant to get you to the point of reading current research effectively. A Ph.D. is mean to bridge you from understanding to contributing (as the focus of your work). When you've finished it, you should be expert in one or two very narrow areas, but also have the tools to make yourself expert in others.

